hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon.pdf
provider in this conversation we
discussed founding a D5 protocol before
the vertical exploded in the summer of
20120 the types of users that are
accessing the Paras swap aggregator
service Lessons Learned From surviving a
malicious attack of black hat hackers
getting a blockchain application listed
in the iOS Apple Store and so much more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens and that the guest or host
might hold tokens discussed in any given
episode you can check out a disclaimer
on
www.newsday.com also if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
helps us reach more people and bring you
more of your favorite guests I really
enjoyed this conversation with munir and
I hope you enjoyed the episode too hey
everyone Welcome to the smart economy
podcast today we're joined by munir
benam led the founder of Paris swap an
OG defi aggregator turned protocol that
was founded in 2019 how you doing today
manir hey D nice to meet you great to be
here I'm doing really good awesome I had
a lot of fun preparing for this chat
because peras swap is just an OG kind of
founded before defi summer and to be
able to survive the the booms and the
busts and the Bulls and the Bears is is
not only just kind of a feat in it of
itself in the blockchain space but
particularly to be a defi project so
there's got to been lots of Lessons
Learned and things that you've seen over
the years so I kind of want to jump into
the conversation asking you like a high
level sort of philosophical or maybe
something that you've noticed and I just
want to know from your perspective where
do you think that we've gotten things
right with Defi and where do you think
that we still need to see improvements
to really onboard the mainstream masses
yeah that's a very interesting question
I think we've gotten few things right
many things wrong I would still say that
defi is still experimental because we
haven't figured out yet what is the A
playbook that works for let's say the
majority of cases but still I think defi
added a lot of value to many people you
can see like the biggest use case right
now you can argue stable coins used
inside defi but also outside like
other fintech or or trade F leveraging
stable coins for international payments
and going even more and more with the
recent the bridge acquisition for
instance so I think that's maybe one of
the biggest things we got right but also
I think we are building the future
Financial rails we seen also more and
more the one of the black rocks alike
looking to build experiments so far in
defi which I think and I hope will
become real in the future so defi is not
just like liquidity pools and landing in
nice nice life safe roots and inestables
protocols but also it's a technology
that can be used behind the scenes in
replacing very old school 17 1970s like
a Cobalt type of software so I think in
like a real world cases defi is proving
itself as a pure technology that can be
an alternative to the existing system do
you think that black rock tokenizing a
fund with the Biddle fund and other
trafi entities kind of entering into the
defi space is that positive for the
industry because cryptocurrencies and
blockchains came from this crypto
Anarchist sort of anti-state background
but here today in 2024 a lot of people
are celebrating ethereum and Bitcoin
ETFs not just in the US but across the
world so is these trafi guys getting
into the game is this kind of good for
defi users as a whole for prod protocols
such as Paras swap well I think it's not
a zero sum right because they can still
use defi they can still benefit from the
technology that has been built over year
but that doesn't take anything out of
the benefit we wanted to see N5 we
wanted to see decentralization we wanted
to see self sovereignty it's not
mutually exclusive they can still use
the tech we have built as a community
over the years and provideed to their
users even though you can argue if the D
on the D5 still makes sense here because
those Technologies are highly
centralized and what they use is mostly
like the smart contract system and the
infrastructure rebuilds but they are
everything but really defi because at
the end they control the whole thing and
everything is kyc AML but I would say
it's positive because it proves how
resilient the technology itself the core
technology is to the level that those
big actors that have lot of constraints
in terms commercial constraints but
especially regulatory constraints are
able to find real Sol
in this technology and maybe taking a
step back what's your Genesis into
crypto if you're like me and so many
other guests that we've had maybe you
looked at Bitcoin or ethereum and kind
of overlooked it and then maybe came
back a few years later with an aha
moment so I'm just kind of curious to
hear what your insurance into the space
was like yeah it looks a little bit like
that so first connection with Bitcoin
was a bit technical in like 2012
something like that I didn't pay that
much attention I was super interested
with the idea actually it's much before
I used to to play second life if you
remember they had this Lyon dollar or
something like that and when I heard
about the idea of Bitcoin is like okay
the same thing but completely
decentralized like it's not owned by the
platform that was the thing that TI on
me and in 2013 this is where I started
becoming more and more interested in in
Bitcoin and only Bitcoin at that time
but not as much as I became in 2017
where I literally left my job just to do
something in crypto without no even kn
what that thing would be I just like
knew that this is what I want to be this
is what I want to work on this is the
thing I want to invest like all my time
in and it was like nothing like like
before so I guess yeah many of you guys
may be yourself can can identify with
this this story I love the city planning
career in 2018 and went full-time into
crypto were you working in Computer
Sciences or something related when you
left what was your previous career yeah
I was a software engineer at that time I
was a city of Paris based startup I was
in software engineering I think I have
converted many people in the team into
crypto including my boss where maybe
each time we had a meeting we would
maybe half of the time talk about crypto
in the market and the other half talk
about work so yeah it was like that what
was the what were the conversations like
because 2017 this is when ethereum
starts really running up the Ico kind of
mania is really starting to to pick up
so were you guys just talking about
token price or were you talking about
Technologies were your peers kind of
getting excited about what blockchain
could or couldn't be yeah I think it was
more about the technology and the
potential and potential solutions that
this can bring we were arguing a lot
because at that time he was convinced
that it's point to te even though you
can see like the financial benefit like
you invest you can like hand X your
backs but it was like an interesting
discussions abouts why this Tech may not
be relevant for the west of the
developed countries but super super
relevant for other countries like at
that time we used to use Venezuela a lot
as an example but I guess since then
many countries also became good examples
for like inflation and also government
power overusing their power against
their populations so I think we had we
used to have a lot of this kind of
discussions obviously you could you
could not like take a look at the market
who was in a crazy Mania but I'm still
having a hard time thinking which one
was like quote unquote the wor was it
like 2017 or the defi summer we had in
2020 or the n boom we having 21 it's
super interesting that you bring that up
I was listening to an a podcast the
other day talking about what the killer
use cases for this cycle the 2024 bull
cycle and as you mentioned in 2017 we
had icos in 2020 we had defi summer in
2021 we had nfts and that made it very
possible for the Western audience to
kind of grab on to an idea for this kind
of hyp speculative bull market to take
effect and we don't necessarily have
that that new activity that new dap that
new use case today for the west but if
you take if you zoom out and take a look
back lots of countries on the African
continent lots of countries that are in
hyperinflated currencies they are able
to use stable coins and this really is a
killer use case that blockchain has
enabled it's just not something that is
numberg go up infinitely so as we start
to see kind of stable coins become more
used around the world are you starting
to see at Paris swap some of your user
base go beyond what your traditional
user base was for the past couple years
are you starting to see more of a global
audience as opposed to maybe like a a
dgen who just wanted to trade and and
perform swaps across different networks
I would say what parasoft first of all
is mostly used by Third parties like 5%
of our volume is comes from like the
likes of a metas l and Co or even just
third parties doing Arbitrage or many
different use cases we can clearly see
some trends like mcoins are still big
they training a lot but not directly
through the poft UI like directly using
our UI but using third parties but
stable coins have been always a big use
case if you look at the volume stable
coins yeah I forget the numbers but like
are big use cases but at least the
biggest transactions if you see
transactions of tens of millions of
dollars likely those are stable coin
transactions they could be either like
Arbitrage or it could be like you people
moving their asset from a lending
protocol or a yield generating protocol
to another one and because the other
ones has a better API for the other
stable coin being swapped how have you
guys been able to adapt to changes over
the years in Market activity you just
mentioned that Meme coins today are kind
of the topic of the day but in 2020 it
was all these food tokens and in 2021 it
was nfts so how does Paras swap kind of
of position itself to be nimble and move
with the market when these new kind of
narratives take off that really excite
Traders yeah what one of the things we
did is this move to B2B where in the
beginning we were like focus on user
acquisition to our user interface in
this case yes we we would have to change
our message and adapt it to the audience
I remember that was interesting when we
went from ethereum only defi chain to
multi- chains with the B smart chain
polygon where the audience had
completely changed we used to deal only
with the Defi ogs and be many in many
people we even knew personally to like a
10x even 20x growth in user base trading
small amounts and have a lot of like
let's say new bu type of Demands where
we had to adapt everything from user
support from even the product itself in
order to make sure we cover this
audience and res serve them best yeah
basically was like just a retail type of
audience who would normally go to
binance and coinbase they started using
indexes because this was the opportunity
on in defi so this was a CH moments but
then moving forward we started to prefer
to focus on Integrations like with third
parties like an A or ledger so we can
provide the best possible service in a
B2B fashion so they can provide also the
best possible service to their customers
and the good thing is that we also had
this experience so dealing with retail
users so the tooling we can provide in
the customer support can provide would
still adapt so it's still indirectly
adapting to market dynamics but I would
say mostly on a commercial on a B2B
point of view instead of a direct to
consumer typ of product I'm not sure the
best way to word this question when as
you have like a a retail Focus for the
platform and providing services for
retail users and then you also have a
kind of be to be focus and providing
services for B2B how do regulations kind
of come into your purview and impact the
way that you guys build I'm a US based
user and I can't use Paras swap right
now so clearly like us regulations are
unfavorable to the platform and you guys
just don't want to deal with the SEC or
anybody here who will clamp down so how
does kind of the different regulations
around the world impact your decision to
offer B2B services or B2B focused
services or retail focused Services yeah
unfortunately that's something super
distracting that it's not my favorite
topics of focus especially with some
long calls with lawyers and trying to
follow their hard guidelines that are
not convenient me as a product person
also as an engineer would like to move
fast and iterate and do experiments and
talk to users and all of that while here
obviously in this space you don't want
to move too fast like for security and
making products robust but also you want
to respect like some local regulations
and also some unclear regulations so you
don't want take too much risk because
that will impact the the product and
impact the persons working on those
products so yeah not really my favorite
not really my favorite thing to focus on
but unfortunately yes this is something
that would be shaping that is shaping
the decision making even in terms of
product and but I hope this will change
that we have some at least good signs in
Europe where The Regulators seem quite
open to defi space and I don't know
about the US everyone speculating that
the next elections will be positive no
matter who is coming who is like who is
winning so I think I hope it will be the
case I think the US like is the biggest
economy and where we saw most of the
innovation in technology it's really a
shame that it is the place right now
that that everyone is trying to avoid
but I hope it will change my wishes like
I said all to everyone if I were to
choose a country where I would like to
build a company it would be the us if it
was not like the status wasn't like as
it is right now yeah and I know that
regulations are like the least sexy
thing about crypto and block chain in
general but just one more question
because you are based in the EU and I'm
just wondering does ma make it easier
for you to be based in the EU do you
think that M will attract more Builders
to kind of locate to one of the
different countries in that regulatory
jurisdiction well I'm not a lawyer so I
may not be have the right answer but my
understanding at least is or at least
like the common knowledge is that defi
is explicitly excluded from maika on its
current version and it's there was a
project to revisit maika and V2 and to
include defi but we haven't seen any
progress so far which means that defi is
still not a topic but it's the
consciously excluded from the current
version of Mika which is a good thing I
also had previously as many
entrepreneurs based in Europe
discussions with some representatives
from people in like working in the
Innovation teams of the regulatory
bodies what I can see is that they are
seem at least to be in good faith and
try to like move things forward and not
kill Innovation so there's no Clarity
per se yet on how defi is seen by the
regulator with there's no Clarity if
that will continue become positive
because now there's no regulation and
there is a explicit exclusion but that
doesn't mean that the future regulations
will be positive so we still don't know
but I would say so far it's still better
than the case of the US I agree last
week I was or two weeks ago now I was in
permission list and I got to interview
over 20 projects on the ground for the
podcast and a lot of the questions kind
of revolved here in the states around
the regulatory ambiguity and something
that I really appreciated from these
conversations was the general gist was
yes we have to be concerned or pay
attention to this but these protocols
we're building are bigger than States
they're bigger than countries they're
bigger than Nations their code that live
on decentralized networks that will
continue to persist whether or not a
government bans them or not so I guess
maybe like zooming away from talking
about countries and regulations what was
the kind of motivation that brought you
to building Paris swap how is this defi
protocol or I guess how have you been
able to Faire over the past 5 years when
it was the Wild West in 2019 to kind of
dealing with rough governments today how
have you kind of been able to ride the
waves of building a defi protocol and
what kind of keeps you motivated to keep
building in defi today it's funny
because in 2019 nobody was paying
attention to defi at all like I was just
discussing that I wasn't even able to
get friends of mine to join me as like
co-founders so that's why I went for a
solo founder because like nobody heard
about this thing it was really small
even in conferences in crypto
conferences like was not nobody was
talking about defi at all and to the
point now we have politicians literally
talking about defi even launching defi
protocols they're really funny so I
think this yes amazing and what led me
is I was a user like in 2017 as we were
discussing I was using eth Delta at that
time which had a horrible ux and had a
lot of users so to me was like okay not
working well but everyone wants that
software so let's build something much
better that can be used by by everyone
so there there was a clear opportunity
but then other protocols launched that
was in late 2018 so Unis swap just
launched kyber zerx core all of these
guys start to see some liquidity some
volume so I changed the direction to
instead of building and yet another deck
let's build an aggregator so that we can
gather the security and make it look
like a big exchange instead of like five
small ones so this was the point of
start of baras Swap and led me to build
a product that's one to be meant to be
for retail like for everyone the target
users was like users of coinbase and
binance which was a very naive idea the
at all because the market was just not
ready like the first feedbacks I used to
get is I want to trade Bitcoin I don't
see Bitcoin and I had a hard time
explaining this is evm based the moment
I start explaining I completely lose
them so I very quickly understood that
this is not the right audience and that
product is very early for its workings
which wouldn't be the case today and so
it led me to Pivot and at that time the
reasoning was defi is still a niche even
though I believe that defi is the future
and the current state is not right like
cryto Poss centralized and the Very way
of trading crypto is super super
centralized so it was just matter of
time but meanwhile we have to build a
product that will serve a purpose and
there was a community called defy small
one of few thousand people in the
telegram group so this was my starting
point of building an aggregator thing is
there meanwhile there was some other
project who launched one is like our
competitor right now one inch that lunch
meanwhile I was doing these experiments
and had some tractions I was like yes I
am on the right spot like there was
somebody who thought about the same
thing so we I mean it was just me at the
time launched in September 2019 in rest
hisory but that version is what barup
look like today with like a lot of
Evolutions in terms of product and
features and all of that yeah do you
remember the moment when you realized
you were building something that people
were actually going to use maybe like
during defi summer did was there a
particular day when you saw a lot of
volume being routed through your
aggregator or maybe a particular day or
or time frame when you noticed a bunch
of people were applying to come work
with you one interesting day was during
the covid crash that was pretty fire
summer because before I used to see few
thousand dollars maybe few hundred,
stuff like that like even never like
close to a million but during the day I
think the US closed the Border its
borders or something like that there was
a big crash in everything in crypto even
I remember this was the maker Dow they
like under yeah it was an issue with
maker da at that time anyways that day
we went from doing a few 100K to like
almost 4 million was for me a
mindblowing and I remember that day I
never stopped working I was working from
outside from in a shopping mall and
seeing like all these volumes and
millions of of dollars process and I
remember at that day gas spiked to like
100 way and there was a token called gas
token if you remember that time where
you could mint it and burn it and get
the gas refund so I started like just
like crazy in doing the arbitr I Spain
from my own pocket there was like no
investors or no funding at that time but
it was still cheap relatively cheap to
like accumulate some and buy from UD
Swap and me some when the gas is cheap
so that attracted a lot of users and
yeah that was the day I would say in
2020 that was mind-blowing but in defi
summer this became like The New Normal
where you see multiple Millions a day
traded yeah was one we're fun days like
def5 small but growing exponentially it
was something that we nobody imagined in
2019 like nutting a year before so you
mentioned that Paradigm kind of shifted
when you integrated support for polygon
and for binance smart chain those were
kind of like the first alt l1s or alt
blockchains that kind of started taking
traction after ethereum and in the past
year and a half two years we've seen
this explosion of l2s with optimistic
rollups and things of this nature so
what are some of the similarities and
differences that you've SE seen over the
years when Paras swap had to learn how
to integrate support and adapt to the
different alt out one communities of
Finance smart chain and polygon and what
are the the things that might be similar
or different when you guys started
adding support for l2s like optimism or
arbitrum or base yeah there definitely a
lot of similar patterns where arbitrum
at some point remind me a lot of the
polygon BC base but now what even though
we have a lot of l2s and even all l1s
there're still the biggest ones and the
long tail and we have to be selective
because it takes some time to build the
support for a chain just few days not a
big deal in general but what takes time
is maintaining that chain and making
sure that users are well served and
Integrations and all of that so we try
to be a bit selective and still
liquidity is concentrated in some of the
top chains like if you look at defi Lama
you have obviously ethereum and top five
six l2s that capture 99% of the
liquidity sometimes we may do some
exceptions like we have a big partner
like ZK evm we were used like quick Swap
and for them it was very important so we
added zkm but in this kind of cases we
may do we try to figure out a way but
that's with fop Delta the new product we
we launch this an INT Centric protocol
so that we can do what we did with dexus
where we can build some kind of
consummation so everyone can have their
own parel like if you launch a chain you
can have oracles you can have stables
and all of that and you can have an
aggregator which will be parasa Delta
it's much more flexible but if there's
automation it will be on Delta side not
on the aggregator but yeah I saw a lot
of similar patterns with Bas when I
didn't expect that at all obviously you
could say it's supported by coinbase and
they have a lot of great distribution
but yeah I would still expect that there
would be always like maximum a top 10 of
the biggest l1's l2s and the long tail
that's not everyone will be chasing yeah
I know liquidity is kinging when it
comes to to dexes is particularly
aggregators but what's the tradeoff when
you see maybe a strong community of
developers or maybe a chain that has a
lot of users but might not necessarily
have the liquidity at what point do you
guys kind of make a tradeoff and say
well there's a lot of users here and
there's a lot of Dev activity maybe
we'll take a Gamble and hope that more
liquidity Finds Its way to the chain
does that kind of play into which chains
you guys support or is it really like is
there liquidity first were thinking
about it in the future but it's not
something we have done yet but it makes
a lot of sense because if you come back
like 2020 I remember people talking
about polygon very few people believed
in this model of alt l1s even though now
looking back it seemed obvious because
the E gas fight and became impossible to
to use like unless you are a big well
training seven eight figures type of
like transactions it seemed OB it seems
obvious right now so I think yes maybe
it's a very good thing to like put some
bet on some projects but given the size
of our team is very hard because you
need to split focus and my role as an
entrepreneur is to like see what I can
filter out and say more NOS than yes so
that we avoid destruction but it's
definitely a good thing if you find the
right projects you become like an
investor where you put some bets and if
you're right you would be rewarded
accorded yeah so Paras swap Delta
launched this year and you did mention
it's an intent Centric middleware can
you just kind of maybe Eli five or just
elevator pitch what an intent-based
trading solution is and then we can talk
a little bit more about how that
benefits the Paras swap users yeah sure
so now when you use Paras swap or most
of the D5 protocols you are responsible
for your trade end to end like you need
to have a wallet load the eth you need
to sign a transaction put it yourself in
the men pool make sure you don't get
front run you need to deal with a lot of
Technical and non-technical details with
intense you just choose whatever you
want to do like swap token a for B push
a button and somebody else who's going
to take care of the complexities on your
behalf but what you care about is I want
10 e or I want five die whatever and
what you need what you expect is you get
that amount of that token you wanted and
that's all do I needt sorry do I need to
use like a smart wallet or is there okay
not necessarily but smart one yes take
intent into another level because yeah
they came with a lot of nice features
but basically now if you go to Delta you
don't need to have gas at all in your
wallets like you say you want to buy e
with usdc so usdc you can just like
approve using permit you just sign a
sign a message and the trade to
authorize the the trade you just sign
another message no need to have gas at
all and behind the scenes there are what
you call agents so there are entities
that competes to provide you the best
not only the best possible price but
also the best possible execution this is
where what we call me resistance what
you get get G if you want but yeah the
they try to give you the best price so
they bit it's like like sorry like add
bidding like when you go to a website
and entities bit to like provide you
it's their ad here it's for giving you
the best possible price and the winner
is the one who gets the right to execute
the transaction and they have the
constraint incentiv you can get into
that you want making the best possible
execution and here this is where we get
into any and Max which makes the user
get the maximum possible amounts here if
you're trading East so they will try to
get you as much you bling so maybe we
could take a step back and kind of dig
into why Paras swap is focusing on MV
resistance right now and I kind of
wanted to touch upon the exploit that
occurred a little bit earlier this year
because I think that and and a lot of
people should think this that protocols
that are able to survive icious attacks
and exploits and and survive they build
back better and this lesson learned is
actually a great value ad for users in
the future because the team was able to
ward off and attack so maybe we can take
a step back and then use this exploit to
kind of highlight why me resistance is
so important so just let me know where I
got whatever I have wrong and maybe fill
in the gaps or correct me where I'm
wrong but in March of this year there
was an attack where 24K of losses were
experienced and then a white hack had to
perform a much larger attack in order to
preserve the assets that were associated
with the Paras swap ecosystem and then
there were a followup series of exploits
that resulted in more losses so maybe
you could just kind of explain a little
bit about the exploit how a malicious
actor was able to exploit resources and
how the white hack was able to jump in
and and help provide a stop loss yeah
was maybe one of the most difficult
times I had in in parasa because I had
like literally almost a week without
sleeping and it happened it was two days
after we launched what you call the V6
like is a new version of our smart
contracts and we just had a support
tickets of a user saying I did a swap
and I didn't receive no they said I did
a swap transaction failed and this the
smart contract s the fun from us which
is a typical kind of of support ticket
we get from many users who just like
don't read well the Explorer and we
didn't pay that much attention but the
user insisted like really here is my
wallet please check it's it's really
happened just check it was late at night
it was like 900 p.m. our time or
something like that we checked and we
noticed that something is very wrong
like the funds were taken from their
wallets and then we gathered all of us
the team and we found that yes there's a
vulnerability and that 24K was taken by
accidents it wasn't the real exploit
those are what you would call generalize
the me Bots where they use some internal
statistical models to analyze the men
pool and based on what they find they
will spot an opportunity so those were
small opportunities that just like 24K
and this is where we put ourselves in a
crisis mode so the whole team and we out
to Samsung and and the SE 911 team which
is like a team that helps like voluntary
persons who help protocols in case of
Crisis so we got on a big call that
stayed the whole night in like 8:00 a.m.
or even more in the morning trying to
write the white hat so two of our
Engineers were writing the white hat
that's the idea that emerged very
quickly during this call the bug was in
a Unis V3 implementation where when you
make a swap it doesn't check for the
color so if you provide if you give an
approval allowance to the contracts I
can reuse that approval and do the
transaction on your behalf and take away
your your your house basically so we
write like a a new module that will
exploit users who have provided
allowance to the contracts and this is
how we were able to rescue $ three3 and
a half million dollars put it on on a
safe quet so they can come later and
claim but the thing is some users have
provided that we try to remember yes we
couldn't save all the users because some
users have provided their yeah sorry
yeah they brought allance but they
didn't have the fun so there was nothing
to exploit that's that was the problem
so the thing is we had to build a bot
that will listen to the men pool and
once they deposit we will wh hack them
right away but that took some time and
the moment we had to go public to
announce because there were two choices
either we keep this secret so we can
like limit the damage as much as we can
but we weren't sure if we're supposed to
do that because if I were a user I would
want to know that very fast so that I
can save guard my money it's because
it's not ours that was the choice we
made collectively is that this is
something that everyone should know and
we should over over communicates so that
everyone would know but at the same time
hackers would know so what we did in the
same time is build those wh hat Bots
except that some hackers were much much
more sophisticated and they were much
faster they had forever to build those
Bots we had fewer hours but so they were
an exploit of few hundred thousand I
think we reached like a million that we
recovered later almost 80% if I remember
well that was recovered or 70% the rest
was found the D founded the rest at 300K
and but also over time like the next
following two days this is where we had
finally the time to perfect make our
Bots work much better so they became
much more sophisticated than the any
attackers like the hackers basically so
we were able to see on shame that our
transaction was always faster than the
other hackers which was some something
fun to do I mean it's fun like to learn
about a lot of things about n but the
level of stress that push us to build
something that nobody takes months but
it worked at least we were able to save
card like to save a lot of users moving
forward because many they didn't read
our communication and like the news and
all of that some media reports the medy
like con graph others didn't pay
attention which is what very unfortunate
because they could have saved a lot of
users by just reporting the white hats
but still I think yes overall damage was
very limited and contained like nobody
lost money at all at the end with the
funds we recovered and the ones we white
hats but yeah it was a hell of an
experiment that I I wish that I never
had to have to deal with again yes
having I mean because it's other
people's assets that are on the line and
and you're protecting them so that you
can protect your credibility I see a lot
of parallels to the eth Dow hack where
you had to kind of build a white hat bot
in real time to to respond to black hats
that were attacking the network so and
and it's just insane that this happened
within 48 hours after V6 uh launch the
Augustus swapper so I guess something
that's really difficult to wrap our
heads around is the weight that we put
into auditing firms when they audit our
contracts so they're necessary we want
third parties to audit our contracts but
they're not perfect and you're this
instance where you had to deal with
black hats isn't the only case that a
def protocol or a dii aggregator or
anything on blockchain really has
suffered a malicious attack after being
verified by multiple smart contract
auditing firms so what was kind of like
a lesson or a takeaway that you and your
team had after dealing with this
malicious attack and protecting your
users did you I don't want to say put
blame on the auditing firms but did you
add a new layer of resil iy and review
to your processes now so that you don't
just depend on third parties and assume
that their reviews are worth their
weight in gold yeah 100% yeah a lot of
changes internally in the process
because you can as you said you can put
the the blame on Auditors and you said
they should have seen it and there were
and there were three like three separate
auditing firms so we think we understand
how we could have done better and we
address that basically yeah it's seems
simplistic but it's really like that
because smart contract are hard even
though the code itself is more or less
simple but you have to get it right if
you break a button in the UI you just
like your user is going to complain but
if you break you introduce a
vulnerability in a contract stuff like
that would happen but in general in in
the processes of auditing you write the
code you submit to Auditors and all
often it's quite tempting to add a new
feature you can say like just this
simple feature we want to add and
normally the Auditors are supposed to re
audit each shine you add something which
was the case here we added something
that was a small feature but you broke
something else which is like the
regression is normal in software but I
think the communication wasn't enough
that pushed the Auditors to take this
very seriously and really effectively re
audit the whole thing and look for
regressions so now the rule is to never
change anything no feature at all once
we build a a contract to be audited
unless a vulnerability or a bug is found
in this case obviously normally we're
going to fix it but we want to always
make sure that the Auditors revisit the
whole contract and make sure we haven't
broke anything else but zero features
many team they they do that already many
teams they do it but like like us we I
mean it was the general practice but
since we were moving more or less fast
and we thought that it's just a small
feature we would be adding here and
there we got into that issue which
normally wasn't supposed to happen
because we have three Auditors but
anyways we have to make sure as you said
there are different layers of protection
but never trusting any third party that
they will do the right thing because
they can also make mistakes and others
can make mistakes so I think right now
the process at least what we as we can
see right now from the latest audits
they feel much more robust and much more
controlled given the new countes we have
right now that we didn't have in the
past you mentioned that you guys were
able to secure the funds from the black
hats after the event so what was that
kind of communication and negotiation
process like I I can imagine it was very
stressful dealing with millions of
dollars or over a million dollars and
not knowing if you were going to get it
back but you were able to kind of turn
the black hat into a gray hat because
you got 80% plus amount of funds
returned so how did you guys go about
negotiating reaching out to the
malicious actors maybe there's some
lessons learned from your experience
that others hearing this right now might
be able to take as nuggets of gold in
case they have to go through something
similar in the future I'm just really
curious to hear what it was like
basically negotiating with a bad actor
one thing is simple is just messaging
them on chain we did with some and some
were responsive because they were also
this generalized type of Meed Meed box
at least what they claim because this
happened also after we communicated but
doesn't matter they were responsive and
we offered them to keep 10% of the
outcome so they someday replied right
away no question asked but some others
especially one with the highest amount
they had like out of the million they
had like 700k so this was the big fish
we were really going after and we put
all our energy some details I cannot
unfortunately share but normally you
work with analytics companies that they
try to go very deep in onchain analysis
because we're still onchain no matter
what you do like you may think you would
be hiding but I mean everything is
public so many hackers they are very
good at writing sophisticated code that
will make such an exploit but not as
good as hiding traces because there's no
way to hide this Trace it's public and
if you use a centralized service this is
where you make your first mistake so I
think yes this is how hackers are CED in
general some I think in other project
that exploited hundreds of AR tens of
millions of dollars I think some they
still resist to to to dat but I believe
it's just matter of time before they get
caught because the moment they will want
to cash out on this money this is where
they're going to hit a centralized
system this is where unless this is like
government type of attack like a North
Korea type of attack but the funny thing
I learned is that some hackers they try
to make themsel look like a Lazarus
group so that the project will let go
because they said they will assume that
they lost this topic and that's
something I learned it was interesting
like I learned a lot of things some
unfortunately I cannot share but yes it
takes a lot of resilience and creativity
I think one I'm not sure I can share but
I can do it after the after the podcast
there was an article published where we
shared some of the techniques we used to
catch that 700k guy using some nfts and
stuff which people I think can verify on
CH but like how we get there it's
something that's very hard to share
publicly unfortunately no worries not at
all and I don't want to really I I think
thank you so much for going into this
like so many Lessons Learned and you
guys can't really handled it well and
were able to recover a lot of the stolen
funds I think the last thing I want to
ask about this is did you have your
relationship with the onchain analytics
firms before the attack or did you
establish this after the attack and if
you could give a tip to another dii
protocol or aggregator out there would
it be to make sure that you have a good
relationship with research and analytics
firms the second you start your working
on your protocols I think it's good to
have PRI knowledge because it's faster
because at that time you need to react
super fast so if you have a contact you
just reach out to them in Telegram and
get a Cote from all the parties
and good also to know them before so you
know which one is the best normally
they're like top two three and the rest
yeah in the situation you want to go
with the ones who have the best track
records unless you know another party
personally or through other
circumstances that they are as good but
for us was chain analysis at that time
because they was like the most available
not because the others are bad but they
were available they can could have
stopped right away we know the person
working there they are very well
they're very good like very talented
yeah it helps as in any other case where
you want to make achieve something in a
person from the side you get things done
much faster yeah I mean so like with me
I've been in in blockchain crypto since
2017 whenever I use anything I'm just
assuming that there's a risk that I
might lose all my funds and this is just
something that I understand as an
individual participating in the wild
west of decentralized Money Networks did
your users feel similar you mentioned
that you had a wide s of retail users on
board and you've more recently been
focusing on B2B so how did the various
different types of users you have kind
of feel about the attack and your
response to it were they caught off
guard was this something that they were
kind of planning for and hoping didn't
happen were they understanding of you
and your team and the ways that you guys
were kind of combating this attack yeah
obviously people were super stressed
because they people you lose your money
and the good thing is you were over
communicating and literally for every
support ticket we could just send them a
we just made five minutes ago and
they could follow up so we put obviously
more efforts in supports in Discord and
private like in intercom and all of that
but we were trying to just over
communicate each there something new we
write a tweet about it we Shar notion
documents I would say it was very
stressful of course and people losing
money lost some lost like hundreds of
thousands but still it was well handled
by our team through good communication
and whether private or public and you
mentioned that the Dow helped uh
compensate users so was this part of
Paras swv's treasury did you guys have
like I I don't want to use a centralized
exchanges example but like a safu fund
did you guys have like a pool of funds
in case this happened or did you have to
take a hit to your own runway in order
to help make users whole again no it was
the DOW treasury that gets accumulated
from our Revenue so the powerof revenue
20% of the revenue goes to a do treasury
80% is captured by stakers token stakers
so that 20% what part of the 20% was
used to a governance proposal and the
dollar volence for cool so like using
this experience what did you and your
team learn about me resistance did it
change anything that you already like an
understanding that you already had about
me did it change the way in which you
protect users against meev like other
than the scope of the lesson that you
learned like how did this help change
the offerings that peras swap has I
think we became experts in a very short
amount of time I would never imagine
that many things I wanted to learn
actually for I learned it within like
those three two three days and also like
me and not only on ethereum but also on
other chains so yeah lots a lot of
things I I I don't know if we this would
have solved the problem at all like
we were in Delta you could still had
that problem although we try to push
users through like in N L choose to not
do Always by default infinite approvals
that's something especially for large
amounts because if nobody have done even
approvals we could have saved them much
easily we could have easily said because
like one of the things we built on the
Bots is if you have a limited approval
we will do a flash LA to match your
approval and we will like do a fake swap
that will just consume your approv appr
so nothing happens in your wallet like
you say you have usdc approved you don't
have usdc in your wallet you will like
send you usdc do a fake Swap and then
refund the The Flash loan that's on so
like you we reset your approval but
unlimited approval there's no way we we
could have done that so we try to like
make sure users understand at least like
for some they know what they're doing
they control very well their wallet for
others they take things for granted as
you said they assume that defi is
decentralized thus it's safe which is
not true because like you can have
exploit like this which can be quite
damaging but I think I don't know if
inet would have really solved the
problem but what I can say at least the
one thing I took from here is expertise
in m and understanding a lot of nuances
that we weren't known before so zooming
out from swapping another service that
PA swap offers is OTC so I was just
wondering if you could share a little
bit about the differences between the
OTC feature and the swapping feature so
swap it uses onchain liquidity team it
could be like balancer Unis swap you
name in terms of Ury we also have a
protocol called ausus RFQ which is an
RFQ liit orders protocol and so it can
be used by market makers like we have a
network of market makers doing RFQ you
can see them as like each one as a DEX
or liquidity pool and the same protocol
is used for OTC so if you want to do an
OTC you can use the OT feature that's
using Aus RFQ protocol or swap for like
peer-to-peer trading in theory you can
also in case like we agree that you will
sell me e and I will pay you in usdc
then I can change my mind I can still s
pay you pay in usdt it will do the
conversion on the Fly Like convert usdt
to usdc and like fulfill the trade it
can also do nfts which is something we
haven't implemented in the UI and we did
it in 2022 was still were hot but the
feature didn't really take off but
that's a possibility you can sell an nft
and the payer can pay with any token so
you expect it but I can pay in any token
I want so and the swap can happen on the
Fly that's also one of the nice features
so yeah that's what's the future is
about and is the peer-to-peer nft Trader
still live or is that just kind of a
back shelf by the way it was the first
version of an iOS our IOS app that's
still in the App Store but um it's less
and less our our Focus the main value
prop of our IOS app in this is in 2020
was you can buy and sell nfts peerto
beer and by Magic it was approved by
Apple they said nothing and we were like
super super happy and we were pushing
this use case it was like something we
really liked as a feature but three four
five months later for an update Apple
blocked everything and they asked us to
use their Apple pay like they needed
like the 30% out of each nft sale we
spent weeks trying to explain to them
that well like people are not paying us
these fees they're paying it to the
ethereum blockchain but they still
wanted 30% cuts on those gas fees it was
really difficult discussion so we had to
remove the NFC feater it exist on the
back end in the smart contract but from
the app and then they went after our
swap feature in in iOS which took us
months to convince them and each time we
had to do some iteration at some point
we removed the Swap and we found a trick
to put it back we did the first time it
worked the second time didn't work so we
went always back and forth with with
apple that led us into like not focusing
so much on the app it's still there it's
working really well especially if you
use LED it's it's really fast but yeah
that's the story behind I mean we went
from OTC to the iOS but yeah it was the
first use case it was in our iOS
incredible kind of zooming out uh I did
want to just touch really quickly on the
Paras swap token you mentioned that
stakers earn 80% of the fees that are
accumulated on the platform are there
any other roles that the PSP token has
within the P the Paras swap ecosystem
yes it's for stakers they capture parts
of the revenue but also stakers they can
have gas refund if you state PSP
depending on how much you Stakes you can
get up to 90 95% of gas refunded still
in state token but that you can unstake
of course but that's the other use case
of the token is to encourage people to
use bar Swap and gets parts of the gas
refunded to it works for Delta as well
and the token was air dropped like seven
a little over 7% of the supply was aird
dropped in November 2021 I think in the
just broader blockchain ecosystem we've
seen a lot of negative press about
airdrops particularly for low float High
fdv chains so I'm just uh Curious to
hear if you feel like you performed the
token airdrop at at the right time in
November 2021 do you wish that maybe
youve you done it at a different time
are there any just kind of like key
takeaways that you have for for the
airdrop and maybe the the negative press
we've seen about airdrops the this past
year yeah sure for us the timing was
definitely not rights for because it was
like the top of the markets if you look
at the chart this is where like markets
changed changed the direction so wasn't
great for many of the people who got
their job especially those who held on
to it also yeah this is obvious like we
didn't perform the best possible
execution for that air drob we could
have done much much better it was the
early days of air drob farming that
started especially after not Unis swap
but like in 2021 this is where really we
started seeing a lot of emergence of
farming and we had a lot of
sophisticated Farmers doing tens of
thousands of transactions and we went
maybe too hard and thinking that we are
doing the right thing of protecting the
other legitimate users but we went way
too hard that we excluded a lot of lot
of user that were pissed and the thing
is yes the community reformed was also
protective and thought that it's too
late to do another air drop so we
thought that let's focus on the existing
community and not try to do a V2 which I
think a mistake we should have pushed
harder for a V2 airdrop because people
took that kind of personally that we as
it we did it in in purpose which was
definitely not the case but yeah it's
very hard it's very easy now to look at
the past and think of what could have
done better but if we were to do it
again I think I would seek more feedback
and I think the project would get it
like this where instead of just doing
the airdrop maybe this became normal
nowadays so just be the airdrop where
you publish the airdrop plans and the
community will have at least a chance to
give an opinion on whether they like it
they don't so yeah a lot of things we
could have done much better if I were to
do it again it's would have been done
differently but to your point of high FL
fdv in anyways like the also the point
systems now these days we are
questioning everything related to air
drop even air drop themselves are are
air drop good or not and I'm still
mitigated whether it's air drob are good
are not they're good because they give
ownership to the community but they are
bad because we see a lot of L of much
more ERS of magnitude farming of those
airdrop that are super opport can defy
the purpose of the aird drop or maybe we
would see some mix between public sales
like the ICU type of 2017 and air drops
and something I guess that should be
continuous not done like in one shot as
we did because it builds this feedback
loop and the customer acquisition words
I think is the point also of air jobs
and I'll just say maybe a project
founder would never say this but you
know nobody's ever happy with what they
get with aird drops that everybody
always wants more so I don't think that
you could have ever satisfied everybody
anyways so if there's a silver lining
then maybe that's a good takeaway we are
at the end of the hour I want to thank
you so much for giving us a a portion of
your day to come chat on the smart
economy podcast about par swap if
anybody is listening to this and they
want to reach out to you who do you want
to hear from and what's the best way
that they can contact you well they can
follow us at Twitter
/ar swap they can reach out to me I can
maybe you can put it in show notes
moneck exact I'm at moneck that's my ex
accounts awesome well manir thank you so
much for taking the time to chat with us
this was an awesome conversation had a
lot of fun digging into what Paris swaps
working on I think there was a lot of
nuggets of wisdom that came from the
experience that you and your team had
earlier this year dealing with malicious
actor and it's always great to see
projects deal with these moments of
adversity and Rise Like The Phoenix and
come out stronger on the other side so
thank you so much for joining us today
it was a pleasure thank you D it was fun
thank you economy podcast to stay in the
loop with all our latest episodes and
insights head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed today's discussion please
show your support by liking commenting
and reviewing this episode on your
favorite podcasting platform your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and brings even better content your way
we'd also love to hear from you so
please drop a comment on Spotify or
YouTube to share what topics you'd like
us to cover and who you might like to
see as our next guest and if you or
someone you know would make a great
guest please feel free to reach out
we're always on the hunt for fresh
voices and New Perspectives and for our
Neo token holders out there please
consider voting for Neo news today as
your Council representative we've
probably been serving the Neo ecosystem
since 2017 and we'll continue to do so
by putting portions of our Council
rewards directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives with all that said
thanks again so much for listening and
we can't wait to catch you next time
[Applause]